I didn't quite finish the C++
for checks yesterday. There was one bug
left.
I want to fix that right now. I want to
get a version of this C++ puffer
working.
That's pretty much it. I'm not streaming
all day. I'm going to do um couple hours
maybe
and we're going to go from there.
Okay. So, where we left off here, I had
this almost working.
Um, but there's like a sixth or seventh
digit mismatch
between these.
That's what we're going to figure out.
And I guess I really just have to like
match
exactly right.
Yeah, I just got to match these like
perfectly.
Yeah. So, I think I'm just going to
start by doing something silly.
Wait, hang on. Maybe I might be doing
something silly here. Let me just run
this again
and we'll see. So, the issue at the
moment is we have like a very very small
mismatch
between the uh the policy gradient
losses. Let me see where actually let's
put this over here.
We look at this
policy gradient loss.
Yeah. So you see like right over here
it's like all the way down here is a
mismatch and it shouldn't be any
mismatch because it should be the
identical functions.
Okay. So
Yeah. Let's just get some more prints in
here. Just get some more prints in here.
I've gotten some pretty good runs in in
the last couple of days.
I actually I still have to sync my watch
to see by how much, but um got a really
really big onem PR.
Other than that, I've just kind of been
working on this port bit by bit.
This is my opinion. Why are there no
good tutorials how to create a new end?
I had to ask in Discord how to do this.
What?
Yo, Opus, did you check?
I have two docs. Okay, I want to know if
you read these first. And if you did
read these, then I will I want to ask
like exactly what you didn't find
helpful because it would be good
feedback. But if you didn't read these,
then you should have read these first.
So, we have in the docs there's only one
tutorial. It's writing your own 1
million plus step per second
environment.
This is a very short tutorial, but it
links to source code and it links to
source code for everything that's very
well commented
and it tells you how to do everything.
And then for higher level stuff,
which is a lot more in like RL in
general.
Damn it, let me get my uh my logged in
tab.
The one is, "Did you read that?"
And then the second one
is, "Did you read the intro article
I always link everybody to?
If you read both of those and actually
went through them and are still
confused, I'd very much like to know
what I can do better.
right, let's see where we were here. All
right, we were editing this up.
I skipped the first one.
Wait, you skipped
if you skipped the dude. Look, if you
skip the tutorial that's literally
labeled
I spent time on this, man. If you skip
the tutorial that literally says writing
your own million plus step per second
environment,
then I can't help you because I like
this is the information you're looking
for. Like I spent a lot of time on this.
There two separate tutorials in here,
man. There's the squared environment
which is a simple single agent one and
then there's also commented code for
target and we even have a template
environment here
where you can copy paste this and use it
as a starting point.
So like I put all this information this
is literally like less than two pages to
read. But I get a lot of questions on
this but I don't know what I can do
better here if it's like if people don't
read this. Now look if you read this and
tell me that you're still confused
that's another story. You got to at
least read the docs page. There's really
not that much like stuff to read
through, right?
Wait, hang on. Let me see. The titles
are confusing. You have to know that
you're referring with the title to an N.
But it's fine. Thank you. I'm good now.
Wait, wait. Actually, that could be good
feedback. Hang on. But wait, help me
under like actually help me understand
like this is environment.
Like is it not clear that N stands for
environment?
Because my intention with this, right,
was to provide a little bit about the
library and then the one actually
important tutorial that everybody wants
here.
And then there's also there are a whole
bunch of examples here, right? We have a
whole bunch of links to examples.
I get a lot of questions about the docs.
Like I want to improve them. What is
SPS? Ah, okay. I get it. I get it.
Gotcha. Gotcha. Gotcha. Cool. See that
is the useful information.
Super Maven, man. It's a really dumb
language model, but it runs really fast.
He's typing, not thinking.
Try my own implementation.
How to play with pufferel.
So the thing that's a little tough about
how to play with pufferell is it's kind
of just on me to make it as simple as
possible. Awesome. Thank you. Okay,
cool. Is this is this clearer to
everybody? Writing your own environment
1 mill steps per second SPS steps per
second per this should eliminate a lot
of questions.
We're going to do even better for you so
that people don't miss the template.
Hang on. Hang on. I'll answer questions
in a second. Let me merge this.
All right.
I watched your iceberg video day. It's
great explaining what Puffer does.
Better.
You should link it. Yeah. I don't know
what happened with the iceberg video. I
put a ton of work into that and um it
really didn't get very much attention.
Like I reposted a few times, really
didn't get much attention.
Super Maven was acquired by Cursor and
never updated.
Yeah, which is [ __ ] Um, [ __ ] cursor is
my view on that. Don't use it.
Uh, I like I like single line tab
completion that like doesn't I actually
wish I could disable multi-line on this
entirely so that it stops trying to [ __ ]
with my code. Like I want this thing to
be LSP++. I don't want this thing to try
to think for me.
Start in the docks.
Okay, I can do that mechanics.
Um,
you know, I kind of want to like wait a
bit though on that. Like I kind of want
to just at some point go through and
well, I need at some point to like
actually reformat my my guide and put it
on because I have my guide on the
website as well, but like it didn't
format nicely.
Yeah, some of these just didn't format
nicely and I need to put a few more
things on here.
Is the iceberg video really that
I guess I can I can actually put it.
That's a good idea.
So, there's this video if you haven't
seen it.
Off Paul with negative times. It works
better.
Uh, it's just obnoxiously low data
regime stuff, Tim. And actually, SAC is
like not even good at all.
Yeah, Tab 9 was the other one. I think
this one was better. From what I've
seen, I haven't played with it though.
That's too much material mechanics.
The puffer white paper is isn't the
puffer white paper there.
Oh, it needs a link. But yeah. Oh, no.
It's there.
But like it's the old one cuz I tried to
upload the puffer paper and I got like
stupid archive moderators tried to like
like because of overlap with the
original
MJX.
Yeah, you can you can use puffer with
whatever.
Use puffer with whatever.
So, honestly, Seesh, you're going to see
me using a decent amount of LM stuff
today um because I'm dealing with the
Torch C++,
but like basically the reason for that
is I'm not familiar with the Torch C++
back end and it sucks. Like, the way
forward is not to make shitty libraries
with bad docs and then rely on LLMs.
It's to make good libraries with good
docs and use your brain. And like
obviously that's harder. So yeah, we
lean in the direction of everything just
getting more [ __ ] over time, but that
doesn't mean we shouldn't push back
against it.
SACE base work with PO base. I cannot
for the life of me. Yeah, Tim, I
actually tried to implement SACE on
stream with Puffer and it just was [ __ ]
I think it's just a bad algorithm.
Honestly,
I don't even see how they're remotely
like comparable at all.
SACE has a really shitty credit
assignment metric and like the max
entropy formulation is frankly just
stupid.
Like the only environments that should
work for are really shitty environments.
Where is this? Right. I was going to
link I said I was going to link this
Uh, so I've tried several of them. They
the thing is they all suck. Like they
just all suck.
Like the I they swear these things are
just architecturally stupid. And
actually I don't want to try chat GBT.
The latest thing that I've worked I've
been using which I think is the best if
you have to use something is the Cabris
front end purely for the reason that it
is the fastest inference. Um what's
really really bad is sitting and waiting
for two minutes while the LM spits out a
response.
There we go. Added to what the website
as requested.
Random forest DQN with puffer lib solve
it better. Yes, we've done multiple uh
we've done multiple like contracted
projects in that area.
We're not finance specialists by any
means, but we do general purpose
reinforcement learning work. And that is
one of the areas that we do work in.
No, not Monte Carlo. I'm not going to
give you details of that other than just
to say that like we build a finance M
like we would build the other Puffer M.
It's essentially we build domain
specific high performance sims and then
Puffer Lib is just really really good
RL.
So, a lot of projects that you would
just spend months and months on, Puffer
will just nail out of the box if you
know how to build the sim right.
Okay,
done with this. I'll give myself an hour
or so to digest before we start on heavy
deadlifts. Um,
C++ port is going fairly well. This is
what we're working on today. There's one
last discrepancy where we have something
is ma is mismatching in like the seventh
digit of the loss and I have to figure
out why. There's some very minor
mismatch and I need the C++ and the
Python not to be very close. I need them
to be identical because this is going to
be the test that I use going forward to
uh maintain multiple backends. Since the
engine underlying is the same, the
numeric should always be identical. So
this essentially means that I can have
two backends to puffer lib and assert
they're identical and never have any
conflicts.
That's the goal. [sighs]
Let's let's see what we were doing with
this. We would do Python
Okay,
we good
because the torch API is C++. I would
gladly use C if they had it. Actually,
the reason I didn't do this before is
because the H C++ API sucks, but it's
what we have.
Um, Rust is a stupid language. C++ is a
stupid language that's bolted onto a
very good language.
But at least in C++, I can just not use
the stupid things and write stuff that's
as close to C as possible.
And I'm going to fight the torch API to
make the implementation better. Morning,
Jess.
That was it. When I was a freshman,
learned fully LLM coding.
Advice for detoxing.
Yeah, man. Just write some of your own
stuff. Like
do some of your own projects and like
actually think carefully about what
you're typing, right?
Go build a puffer end and go build a
little game.
Make it fast. Very simple code. You'll
see how simp how much simpler it is if
you go look at some of the handwritten
code we have versus the crap that LLMs
will output. Like it's just so much
simpler.
What do you use torch to torch for?
Training
like the neural nets.
What do you mean? What do I use torch
for?
Yes, I have my implementation of the
training algorithm in Torch, right?
What did you think that I wrote my own
like I don't have my own kernels, man,
for every single layer.
I technically have I do have a version
of torch that I wrote um that is
inference only and very slow that we use
for demos because it compiles to web
assembly but you wouldn't use it for
training.
Yeah, don't vibe code [ __ ]
I thought you had your kernels. I have
an advantage kernel. We have like one
kernel for an OP that we need, but we
don't have like and we don't have our
entire own like training engine, right?
If I had a training engine to puffer
quality like you know that's what I
would be working on full-time and I
would be trying to like you know replace
pietorch and jacks and all that. Dr. J
how's puffer going? Puffer is going
well. Uh current goal is C++ trainer and
I want puffer 40 to be 10 million steps
a second. That's the target. 10 million
step per second training.
C++ will get us up to 5 million.
Um
alternative
alternative um like alternative RNN
formulation if it works will get us to
seven or eight and then 16 bit training
will get us over 10. That's the goal.
Welcome everyone on YouTube.
Let me see where this M mismatch is. So,
here's our advantage.
Are there simpler, faster training
engines? Uh, there are simpler ones.
Well, there's one simpler one, Tiny
Grad.
but not faster.
What device is that benchmark on? Uh,
the target will be a 5090 for that.
4090 would be even better. We might be
able to hit it on a 4090.
I wouldn't be surprised.
Oh, and also it's for not a stupidly
tiny network. Like that will be for at
least 128 hidden dim net with memory,
not like a 32 two layer thing. There are
a couple libraries out there that claim
to be faster than Puffer, but then they
use like really stupid tiny networks.
So,
What did I print here? That's different.
This is MB advantage
Okay. So, this is the same.
And then what's this new advantage?
Ah, here it is. So, 7
8299.
This looks the same to me, man.
Wait.
Update on chess was still having that
change draw collapse went through my
move code the league move penalties were
being abused
we work towards to ma ma ma ma ma ma ma
ma ma mathematic sure everything's
normalized currently training on that
cool
will be an awesome mess
I'm looking forward to
I wish I could pull up my Strava real
quick. I had something kind of cool
yesterday. I uh I didn't have time to
run in the morning and I only had like
20 minutes to go out before uh dinner.
So, I said, you know, screw it. I'm
going to do a onem warm-up and then I'm
going to do a fast mile. I think my best
mile ever before this, at least like
since high school when I was super
light, uh was like a 70,
I don't know, like a low seven, right?
Uh and I ran like the slowest that mile
I just ran, I haven't actually gone and
checked the logs, the slowest it could
have been was 634.
So, I was pretty happy with that.
Got to keep in shape when you just work
on code all day.
So, you know, repping double body weight
deadlifts 630 pace mile.
I'm pretty happy with the progress.
We'll do some deadlifts in a bit today
as well.
Physical translates to mental. Okay, so
this is actually a little bit of a
subtle point with research. Um,
research requires an incredible amount
of mental discipline
and
it's like inherently a volatile area
where you're going to make a ton of
progress at some time and not a ton of
progress at other times and it's very
demotivating and you're also not always
going to have the mental
you're not always going to be in the
right mind state to do your research. So
having discipline consistently in
another area of your life where you kind
of prove to yourself, right, that you
are capable uh of putting in that level
of effort and of like chipping away at
hard things. Uh it lets you when you're
having a low in your research, it lets
you say, you know what, I'm going to
take off. I'm going to reset. I'm going
to come back and I'm going to trust that
I have the discipline to do that, right?
Because I've proven it to myself.
very very important to have that.
Without that counterbalance, research is
incredibly incredibly depressing.
Out to dinner? No. No. I just I
typically have dinner at like a pretty
precise time is all.
And it's not that remote either. If I do
want to go out to dinner, it's like a
15-inute trip into a town.
Like six miles is the nearest.
Still remote enough, you know. There's
no light pollution pretty much like
completely dark at night, no noise other
than like wind. Very peaceful.
really really great for clear thinking.
I feel so so much better here than in
California. California is great for
business, but it's like just so nice
here.
Yeah, you get a full sky of stars. It
was a bit of the inspiration for the
puffer constellation project.
You kind of forget if you're in cities
for long enough, right? You forget what
that's like. Um, and it's kind of sad
that we like blotted out the night sky
in a lot of the world.
Yeah. California is in like SF or LA.
Even I'm in Palo Alto for the summer
typically and it's still like
better. It's a suburb, but it's not like
remote. You still have loud annoying
neighbors and like
bothering you. It's peace and quiet is
very important. This type of work.
World models. I have a very long
thing with world models. Um, Nicholas,
the quick version is that a lot of the
best like supporting work on world
models is aggressively bad science and
they are nowhere near as stable or
consistent or general as they are
typically presented. uh and they're
guaranteed slow. And I'm generally,
it's maybe the most promising area that
I'm choosing to completely ignore in my
own work, but I think I feel good about
my decision to just completely ignore
them for the time being.
What the heck happened here? So, this is
advantage.
How the heck is this loss different
then?
advantage normalize. Right? Hang on.
Advantage normalized.
All right.
storage devices.
Uh,
well, they're fuzzy.
They're fuzzy storage devices.
So, that means you're not going to have
them ever subsume
like non-fuzzy storage. But yeah, that's
essentially what you're using them for a
lot of the time, right? It's like fuzzy
docs lookup because the documents are
not like the documentation out there is
really [ __ ] So this is like fuzzy
encoding of docs plus whatever public
source code is out there that uses
specific library, right?
And it is literally it's a compression
objective
right that you're maximizing
and this should be good.
We're going to fix this bug today. The
only thing I don't know about is Muan
because we don't have Muan yet in uh in
Torch, but apparently it's getting PRED.
So, if we can just use the torch version
of Muan and it's good. That would make
my life a lot easier.
What area is most interesting, promising
at the moment? Uh, the problem is
they're not really areas of research
that have anything active going on in
them. So, can I just say puffer because
it's the stuff we're doing here.
It's mostly stuff that resol revolves
around high performance sim and new ways
to leverage high performance sim.
Muan muan's an optimizer.
It's one of the one it's one of the
additions that we have um we use in
puffer 3 and it's dramatically just
better than Adam. It really makes a like
a step change difference.
It's one of the few times that in like
the last several years in research, I'm
willing to admit that I was just
completely wrong about something. I
thought Optimizer Research was a waste
of time and then Muan is just like a
clearcut better on everything win.
Yeah, it's a drop in replacement for
Adam.
It's being used on a lot of LLMs. And
then the one the only thing I can take
credit for is I was the first person to
really figure out that it's good for RL.
That's the only thing I can take credit
for. And it was really nothing
impressive as much as it was just puffer
was really really fast. So I could run a
ton of experiments and I got I got
comprehensive results on Muan first
because of That
But yeah, Muan was a really good chunk
of puffer 3 0.
GG to me. I mean, really GG to the Muan
authors.
Uh yeah, lamps. The one thing is you do
have to fully retune hypers. So you may
or may not see improvement until you
actually retune your hypers.
That was the mistake that people made
where they uh they didn't see it. They
just tried to run it with the same
hypers.
So I reran full hyper sweeps on
everything and then it was obvious that
muan is just better.
We're running two to three mill step per
second distributed PPO distributed PO
built in house. We get a we get 3
million steps per second on one GPU. We
do have distributed support as well and
it scales like it scales to be even
faster than that.
Goal is going to be 10 uh 10 million
steps per second in the next release on
one GPU and not even a data center card.
That's going to be on like a 4090 or
maybe a 5090.
Yeah, we're just like really making this
stuff insanely fast.
Oh, also um don't use vanilla PO. Like
go check the Puffer blog post. Uh we've
made some really major algorithmic
advancements to PO. Our algorithm is
similar to PO, but qualitatively it
performs way way better. with the
advancements we've made.
Is it like CUDA?
Can you use it?
Well, it runs our implementation is
running Torch with the Torch Cuda back
end, right?
So, like AMD is if you can make Torch
work on AMD, then sure, it'll work on
AMD.
I think there are a couple people that
do that.
Multi headtt
multi head tuned loss functions alum
custom with multi head.
When you say multi head, you just mean
like transformer base architecture
tuned loss functions.
Is this LLM stuff or is this um like
standard RL?
So because we have we have um our core
model we have is just LSTM
LSTM based everything typically like 64
length segments collected. Um
yeah
I have not actually really seen good I
have not seen good enough evidence to
switch to transformerbased.
Uh I don't think it's worth the speed
difference.
Multiple critic heads. Why do you have
multiple critic heads?
Wait, why would you have multiple critic
heads?
Like you mean um like distributional
thing like categorical value function
ma and S4? Yeah, I didn't like I didn't
see much out of SSM's
XL sucks. Yes, that is a good good
confirmation. So, Lance, I'll give you a
little bit of a a preview. The thing
that I'm considering doing next is going
to be um like min LSTM
because we're at the point where our
implementation is so ludicrously Perf
optimized that that is actually becoming
the bottleneck. Like the really nice
CUDA kernel that comes with the LSTM
seek model is actually the bottleneck
now.
So, we're thinking of doing um
parallelizable recurrent cells,
And check out some of the stuff in
Puffer Lib. All of my stuff here is all
free and open source. We do offer stuff
for companies as well, but uh it's all
free and open source regardless.
Minnel's Tim and Miyu sucks for two for
us. Really? When you say it sucks, did
you did a parameter matched
did parameter matched to LSTM do worse
than just LSTM
because that's the experiment that I
need to run is like uh full sweep
hyperparameters, right? Parameter
matched
LSTM minstmu or even just compute
It doesn't work with old GPUs.
Okay. Yeah, but those are potatoes,
dude. Like nobody even has those
anymore.
G47 is like that's
10 years old. More that's more than 10
years.
R& Yeah, RNs are good.
Yeah. So, I guess that's the question,
Lance, is like how much did you actually
test these?
Oh, yeah. 20 years old. There you go.
Um,
because we do really need some sort of
parallelizable
training cell at this point.
It's really holding stuff back.
Try Mamba
if you have the balls to optimize it.
What do you like? I guess it depends
what regimes you're running in though,
right?
But wait, Mamba is not Mamba. Is Mamba
paralyzable training?
Oh, screw that, man. World models [ __ ]
I really don't trust a world model
30 40 hours for one E7 frames. Well,
this is just stupid.
Are you having this work in like high
data regime?
Cuz this thing is just ludicrously slow.
Like that's that's unusably
utterly unusably slow
paralyzable.
It's still world model though. My
experience with world model based
approaches has been really [ __ ]
You say you're doing like Wait, our
environments are very complex.
100 to 500 ms.
I don't believe you need 500 mil for
anything. Dota is 168 mil.
Though, if you want if you want to um if
you want to see if you have like
something that can really crush,
take your uh take your algo
and soda to this.
This is miniarmmmo.
I have this training 500k steps per
second on one GPU. So, it's fast. And
uh there's like tool usage in here.
There's armor. There's weapons. There's
equipment. There's a market where agents
can trade with each other. Thousand
agents per world. All PCG.
And this thing we can train. we get like
log linear training curve over 650
billion steps.
So yeah, give this thing a whirl if you
want to stress test.
As far as academic uh things used in
academic research, I'm pretty sure this
is about the most complex multi-agent
envir
I'm so suspicious of this
RSM.
Wait, how the heck do you?
No, RSSM are not parallel.
Warberg AI.
Cool. Yeah, we've done a couple things
in finance. It's not our main focus at
all, but um you know, we've had a couple
clients in finance.
Cool to see RL being done here though. I
mean, it makes sense.
I don't know why you would need sample
efficiency here, though.
I would think you can just absolutely
crank synthetic data because we've done
like single um single GPU finance and uh
finance model training that's over 3
million steps a second.
Yeah, I'll add one piece of uh one vote
for this to my mental model.
I've just spent so much damn time on
world model derivatives and that's
hasn't gone anywhere.
Mamba is a transformer alternative. Oh,
okay.
I Wait, Mamba. Which one?
I This is the one that I remembered
though. Which one is it? Mamba
transformer.
This.
Okay. Okay. See, I remember the other
mamba.
Oh, wait. No, maybe you're right. Okay.
Yeah, that's four
Linear recurrence for global
convolution.
I guess there's so many damn questions
though on this type of architecture.
Does this still have a hidden state? It
does.
Okay. Okay, so I guess technically then
this is still good for RL because it has
like a single hidden state
and then apparently then you can compute
I guess I suppose this is sort of like
MGRU where there's a parallel mode that
you can train it in.
And regardless we need something with a
parallel mode.
I actually it's kind of funny that we
don't even need it with uh stuff with a
parallel mode for our biggest
experiments because those have big
enough batches that we don't really
suffer that much. But for our smaller
experiments and benchmarks uh which are
still important in research, we would
like to have something that has this
parallelism
sequence to sequence transform. Oh,
wait. Sequence to sequence.
All right. I'll have to look at this
more.
Well, we've got two options now, I
suppose.
I still want that ablation, though.
Like, is it in the paper?
Did they have it in the paper? for the
uh the ablation on
course, everybody says that theirs is
the best.
All right.
They don't have comparison to just
standard LSTM on here, do they?
Why the heck don't they have like
comparison to standard LSTM though?
That's super annoying.
Min LSTM have a smaller LSTM.
No. If it's a smaller LSTM, man, then
you're doing the comparison wrong. You
would always parameter match. Well, the
way that you would run a good experiment
on this, right, is you'd parameter match
minstm to LSTM, and then you would
compare the uh accuracy and training
speed under optimized hyperparameters
for each
larger LLM models, so they scale better.
Yeah. So that's not what we necessarily
want though because so this is my
benchmark for everything, right?
I was there when they were doing this.
This is the best by far the best
executed large scale RL project, right?
This is a one layer LSTM with 168
million parameters
solves Dota. So whenever anybody tells
me that we need to scale models, I just
do not believe them.
And in my own work, I've had like pretty
extensive evidence showing that the
scaling trends in RL are nowhere nowhere
near as aggressive as they are in
supervised learning. And there's
theoretical and empirical evidence to
back that
maybe.
Yeah.
So, what I was wanting to do, Lance, is
I was wanting to do a parameter matched
either GRU or LSTM minstm
uh and then compare that to see if I can
get the same perf, I don't even care if
it does better, right? But if I can just
get the same training quality out of it
and have it be faster, that's already a
massive win. Because the thing is we
have we have settings where we have like
very big batches and very small batches.
And on the very small batches that
parallelism is going to be not just a
2x, it's going to be like a 20x speed
up. You know, when we're running these
big sweeps and computing scaling laws
and things like that, uh it's a huge
difference.
Are people still arguing over my
freaking like
identic post?
26k views on a troll post. That's funny.
All right. But at least it's good to uh
at least it is good to know here though
that we have
there's Mamba exists and that's a thing
to look at.
So thank you for that. I would be
interested to know if you said you
didn't get much out of mind and LSTM
what you ran
frame stacking being a pretty decent.
Did you ever ablate that? So, no, we
didn't really do frame stacking because
uh we just made our LSTM implementation
fast and then there's not a reason to do
it.
Jess, I'm achieved soda in the draw game
benchmark.
[laughter]
That's funny, Jess.
That's funny.
All right, we do have to fix this
implementation today though. I am
interested in hearing about whether the
um that min architecture just flops
somehow.
All I want is it to be same perf
parameter matched and I'm very happy
and hopefully parallel scan to not be a
total pain in the ass to implement
cuz we need so basically I need to do
something anyways because there isn't a
good BF16 kernel or LSTM. So either I
have to go get something else which
would be faster anyways or I have to go
spend my time on a BS16 kernel and then
also probably get something else later
anyways, right?
18. Okay.
Entropy. Let's check entropy all the
way.
Five. Okay. Entropy matches.
Uh value loss.
Value loss matches perfectly.
Policy gradient.
Okay. Five, seven,
eight, nine, one, two. Okay. Yeah. So,
there's still mismatches, right?
And super excited for this ARP. Ah, and
I have to get a I have a dock that I
just have to polish up and send over to
you as well. Finn,
sorry for the delays on that. I'm super
excited about that uh this stuff as
well. I've just had a million things
No worries. Yeah, we'll get you
something that you should be happy with
as well.
Uh,
excited to see drone stuff. Drone stuff
will be cool.
PG norm
or PG loss and advantage norm.
Do I just need more digits of this
advantage to see if it's wrong?
Where's the uh the format on this?
That's like
I got to just get myself a account on
this. I've been lazy. Hang on.
Just do quick for this. Simple.
going to scoot. We have should talk in
Discord. Yep. Message me on there and uh
yell at me here if I don't see it
because friend wreck notifications suck
on Discord. I'd be happy to chat.
here.
Do I have a notification from you
somewhere?
Print some stuff, right? Why does it
print entropy correctly?
nothing. I just did the exact same
thing.
Yeah.
Oh, wait. This is the Python print, you
dummy.
Hang on.
Advantage normalized.
Yeah, it does spin up ends differently.
You shouldn't be using that for um for
prod. It's for
mostly for testing. But that also
shouldn't cause a memory leak.
Is there a memory leak thing that I need
to fix with serial
like generally?
There shouldn't be, but I guess it's
possible.
Don't think generally. Cool.
Well,
wasn't freeing shared mam.
Makes sense.
Oh, this is the C++.
Wait.
Okay, now here we go. Vantage
normalized.
Yeah, here we go. So, this is
660.
Yeah. So, this advantage is still
correct.
Oh.
How's the policy gradient loss
different?
Yeah. How's this different?
How did you create the fish animation to
do with Blender? Nope. I paid two
different artists.
I am not that talented.
He is our mascot.
And if you're new around here, all the
work I do is free. It's open source.
There educational materials and there is
publicly available research. Puffer.ai.
You want to help me for free? Feed the
puffer a star. Eat stars.
Discord if you want to get involved with
dev and follow an X for all the content.
back to dev
in which we attempt to figure out how it
is possible that these two are
mismatching in the seventh digit or
whatever
because this advantage function is the
same
like all the way 12 digits
and then PG loss is different in like
seven seven or eight right
driver and Uh, okay.
Huh.
Driver M doesn't free. That's
interesting.
Yeah, it's kind of annoying that we have
stuff like that in the first place,
right? Ironically, the memory management
would be easier if we were writing the
whole thing in Pure C. It's the Python
API that makes it a pain.
I'd be very, very happy if I never had
to write Python again.
Let's write C.
Great.
A few other languages I wouldn't mind,
but
not C++. C++ sucks.
What
do we do?
I mean it's not possible I messed up
this clamping thing, right?
Advantage normalized
max and then mean, right?
But if the ratio
ratio on each of these is one,
should ratio be one?
Yeah. So this ratio is going to be one,
right?
Because it's always the first update. So
it's going to be one ratio
and
then you wait by the advantage norm.
But how are these how is it possible
then these are different because like
Same code, right?
Like exact same code.
Right here.
I suppose I can print more digits of
this just to be absolutely sure.
What
man?
Okay, now we're positive that these are
exactly the same, right? Like look, it's
all the way matching.
And then somehow even though ratio new
is here, these are one exactly.
Then somehow even though these ratios
match uh the policy gradient loss,
it gets off in
It's like the eighth digit.
But like how
right if the inputs are the same
What's clip coefficient represented as?
It's a double.
Let's ask ask an LM time. It could
technically be like Python
um loading point representation. That'd
be so weird though.
It's going to be some like weird Python
thing, isn't it?
We shall see. But my bed is on um some
like weird numerical representation
[ __ ]
which is annoying because I actually
have to consider that just as seriously
as normal error doing this check.
My bet is on numerical representation of
clip coefficient being different in
Python.
Let me just set this to uh let me get
the last couple digits.
Sure.
Have an idea. Cool.
We have
me.
So now we have the entire
thing
9.
Yeah. So this is like the exact
[clears throat]
exact thing.
Let me try one other thing real quick
just to be sure. This will be uh pretty
easy.
If I just do like this
because then I can just do like
and
if the hypothesis is it's like some very
stupid small numerical difference in
clamp.
Uh kind of.
I haven't been particularly
up on
this area of research though. I think
Jeff Cloon has a few things or whatever.
No, there's not a term for it. They're
just some works.
But the problem is the LLM is so much
slower than the not LLM
that like
Yeah. Oh,
so is the policy gradient loss still
different here?
Okay. If so, this was a good test to
run.
six.
Wait. Whoa. It's still different.
Hit nine.
How is this still different?
Advantage is the same.
And the loss comes out different
really.
How can these possibly come out
different, right?
Everything else is matching so
perfectly.
Yeah. Would be like every 10k steps
could be every several episodes though,
right? And then how do you actually use
that guidance effectively?
It's tough.
I'm a lot more confident in us just
being able to crush RL the way I'm
working on it now.
that we have
Vantage matching perfectly.
Everything else matches freaking
perfectly as well.
And then the loss is off.
Value loss
all the way out in digits.
Vantage
Right.
And policy gradient is actually
it's off like
I wonder what the actually output of
advantage is here. This could
technically be it, right?
But you shouldn't have to have it in
double.
It should be in float.
So bizarre that it's like identical up
to then we have no problems with numeric
at all. Right?
Like
we got entropy here
exactly the same
digits
a prop
mean advantage?
How is that different?
Wait,
so we have advantage normalized
mean.
Oh, wait. Hang on. These are the same.
And they should be, right?
Okay. This is a clue
in here.
60438.
Oh, okay. So, in the Python case, look
at this. In the Python case, these two
are different.
These shouldn't be different, right?
Ooh, the ratio is slightly off. You see?
Yeah, the ratio is just slightly off.
Barely.
Yeah, it probably is like floating
point. But uh the idea is that the
numeric should be identical because
we're calling torch lib either way.
So we shouldn't like it should be
identical identical.
Okay. So why is this different then
here
Oh, I bought
Go away.
chess is hard. Let's see. Chess.
Uh, what did you just DM me?
Do I have DMs for you?
DMs.
Okay. Well, I didn't see any of your DMs
before because of Discord's DM system.
Is this versus random opponent just or
versus one step?
Okay, let me see. Versus random
novel moves.
What does the what reward does it get on
a draw?
And are you setting terminals? Where's
the code for this man?
There are a lot of things that could be
happening here.
[sighs and gasps]
Yeah, that's completely wrong, right?
It's actually learning, right?
Send you code sometime. Sounds good.
ridiculous.
I don't know how you even get the assets
in an hour for that.
even possible for that to be after one
one learning rate step
So weird.
So incredibly weird.
All right, more coffee.
Um,
it's very weird how this is like
affecting updates, right?
It's like very very weird how this
affects updates.
Get like 0.02 basically.
I'm assuming there's a factor of two on
Adam somewhere, but
I want to see if it learns first. So
basically, I want to see if this is
something that's like pedantic or if
this is something that's completely
screwing it up and like we're just not
catching correctly.
Well, we really need this test either
way, man.
saw you were. Hang on. Let me read that
in a second. Wow. Oops.
Uh, I just did an internship and not
great, frankly.
really not great.
I mean, the the the guy who brought me
on was cool, but like there were just a
lot of really unmotivated people um that
just kind of wanted to skate by and
basically made it impossible to do any
real work.
I'll opt the Neo robot. 50 cents per
hour per robot. You could probably make
more than that. Amazon never known for
real work. Uh that's not true. Just AWS
isn't like actually not even AWS. Chunks
of that are even fine. It's just the AI
stuff that isn't like the am the core
Amazon warehouse business is kind of
awesome if you think about it.
Yeah. Honestly, I don't think I've ever
been as depressed as working there.
Yeah. It's just
it's very easy to put you like to put
even a good engineer in a position where
you just literally can't do anything and
it feels awful.
Yeah, the logistics work would actually
be cool. I have no doubts that there are
like some actually really smart people
on logistics there. That type of stuff
would be really cool.
I mean, all the large companies, right?
There's not a single large company where
you can just pick a random team and go
to get get a good experience. There
simply are not that many talented,
motivated people out there.
>> [sighs]
>> I mean, I speak incredibly highly of
Open AI when I was there when it was
like really small, but I highly doubt
it's the same level of talent density
today simply on the basis of there can't
be that many people that are that good.
Dematic makes similar stuff. Oh, yeah.
We'd be down to do logistics.
Absolutely.
The heck is this?
The heck?
It's 4.5 here, right?
with all the perf debugging on. But then
how
Yeah. What's What's going on with this
thing? Something broke.
Okay.
Earth is zero score is negative one. So
something's broken.
kind
struggles kind of struggle in creating a
simple embedding based bond.
I don't think I've ever seen any
particularly impressive AI work
out of Amazon, frankly.
But I mean, the logistic stuff they do,
right?
I don't mean like the suggestion the
Rexus on Amazon. God, no. I mean like
the actual logistics of moving packages
around, right?
like the physical warehousing.
Ah, stupid. Very, very stupid. I got it.
Yeah, I got it here.
Okay. We get this mismatch still
unfortunately.
Little different though.
What did we just get out of this?
No. Perf.
Still not training.
message. I have a bunch of applied
scientist friends over at Amazon. They
also feel they're doing very bad work.
Logistics is great. They're stuck in
solving problems for business, never
doing creative research. I finish their
task. Yeah, absolutely.
That's what I would expect.
It's not really the place for that, you
know.
Like honestly, if you're start if you're
smart and have like enough cash in the
bank to be comfortable for a bit,
um the fun thing to do these days is
just to figure something out yourself.
better not be faster in freaking Python.
Something's weird there.
Oh, cuz we have
Oh, that's correct.
doing leverage bets and markets just
gambling in order to feel something.
Yeah, building your own stuff is a lot
of fun.
I particularly like the idea of just
trying to build something that's very
cool and unique and meaningful and then
like not getting too tied up in the
traditional
traditional business.
Oh, and of Yes. Yes. Uh I have seen that
funny enough
there's an announcement with that soon.
Actually,
I think that
yeah, I have permission to say this. So,
we have a we have like a very very
simple simulator uh we built with them
that we have permission to release that
I just haven't gotten around to
releasing. Only a very simple one though
is like released public.
Why is this not trained anymore?
Is it just Adam?
That would seem weird that this doesn't
train anymore.
Yes, Serves.
Yeah, I can I can say that because we
have authorization to release the SIM. I
can't say anything else though
other than you know Puffer does um
like the main thing that we do
professionally is high performance
simulation development right for RL
we also do like uh priority service we
do contracted R&D but the main thing we
do is build Sims these days
I mean it makes sense right
Nobody else builds nobody else builds
fast sims like we do. There just are
zero other people that do this
because like you need the puffer stack
to make uh to take advantage of them
properly. Anyways,
Oh,
that'll do it.
What?
Do this.
code.
Is it really like
is it broken? broken.
No
brains.
Now it's worse.
That's weird.
and not being able to solve this is very
bad.
It's a very simple end.
Yeah, it's not doing the same thing.
Should be
not doing the same thing. And it's like
faults.
You don't want to build with debug one.
You just want to build like this.
probably end of bugs.
I'm going to end stream pretty soon
though, guys.
Have to work on this a little offline.
Couple client things as well.
It's really annoying how um fiddly this
is
works now in Python.
Well enough at least.
like B.
Okay.
log indices. Oh,
okay.
answer.
That was good, right?
Okay, so this still works the same as
Four.
Oh,
what's this?
Out of memory.
Weird.
Oh.
Okay. So, the um peg's probably in the
end, right?
Let it finish just to be sure. Oh, it
still psych. That's weird.
That's very weird. doesn't fold as
quick, but it still psych.
Well, I guess the next thing would be
Hang on.
See
Okay, it actually fails an eval not
train.
Interesting.
I would think that would give you a
warning.
I'd be pretty surprised if that's what
it is.
Yeah, it's just going to take some time,
I think, to get this port fully settled.
This is an interesting take from
Carmarmac.
Well, what the hell even is this reply,
my guy?
What is that?
I mean, I don't think he's not referring
to expensive operations here, right?
I kind of tend to do the exact opposite
of this,
right? And the lower level I go, the
more I do the exact opposite of this.
I'd basically ignore that take if it
were from anybody but Carmarmac. So,
I'll have to think about that.
It's still psych faults for now, though.
Maybe it's this.
You're just not allowed to mess with the
rewards tensor because it's part of the
end.
That would seem weird to me though.
Oh, still say faults. Okay. Process of
elimination.
most of my ops are modifying structs in
place,
So, is it one of these copies being
weird?
Ops buffer.
Ah, you know. Is it this?
I'm going to try this. See if this fixes
bug.
Do my first deadlift set and then I'm
going to end stream if nobody has
questions.
And don't seg
don't do
Ah, still faults.
Dang.
Oh, you know what?
Hang on.
These come from here. Now
this is buffer types.
Well, I'm going to have to figure this
out,
but I got some stuff to go do. So, I'm
going to call it on stream for a bit,
guys.
Debugging this stuff is takes some time.
All right. Um,
all my stuff's on puffer.ai. You want to
support my work for free, start the
GitHub, join Discord to get involved
with dev. You can follow me on X for
more RL content. I'm going to see if I
can figure this out throughout this
afternoon. Um,
and yeah, I will be back for a little